hello my name is Tom and I wanted to
this is sort of an introduction but
actually I'm doing it after a bunch of
tests we've done on drip brewing pour
over drip brewing and I just wanted to
share our findings you can watch the
other videos too which are a mess and
see the process and etcetera but there's
been some very interesting revelations
in this series of tests that we did I'll
just cut to the chase one of them was
what you're trying to do was basically
make the best tasting coffee possible to
do that we're doing two things of course
we're tasting our results and we're also
using a refractometer to check the brew
strength one thing that we found is that
this thing tells you that something in
the area of one point one eight percent
extraction to one point two two is where
most people like their extraction and we
definitely found that to be true with
the cups we under extracted we could
tell that it was not a favorable result
what this does is this measures the
amount of soluble solids that you wash
out of the coffee in the brewing process
so the variables are your grind which
exposes more surface area of the coffee
to the hot water to allow the soluble
solids meaning the flavor what you taste
to wash out in the coffee you have the
temperature of the brew water you have
the amount of time that they're in
contact with each other and you also
have the turbidity the mixing of the
water and the coffee so if that's
stirred
you get a higher extraction in a shorter
amount of time you also change the
flavor results so those things are all
variable and obviously with filter comes
where the water just pours right through
you have just less contact time you know
that's the difference is is that we have
these filter cones and then we have this
kind of other thing which is a filter
cone that's the clever coffee dirt the
stopper on the bottom that allows the
coffee water to mix longer and this
tests have proven that the clever coffee
drip there's quite a different item than
the these other ones it needs to be
thought of differently than your typical
filter cover so let me uh let me go over
some of the some of the things we tested
exclusively with the Kenya we were going
to choose a very mild coffee but we
decided to choose a really a really good
potent coffee but one that shows brewing
problems really easily one of the things
we found out right off the bat was a lot
of this became about paper taste in
coffee it was not so much in which hat
is related to the percent of soluble
solids you extract measuring with this
we used a variety of paper filled nurse
I didn't grab them we used white filtro
filters we excluded the aroma brown
unbleached filtro filters what we found
what I've been finding recently and
actually why we're going to drop the
aroma brown from our lineup at sweet
Maria's is that it has too much paper
taste we also used excuse me we use hemp
filters not because we're big hemp
supporters or whatever I I like him I
don't care
but um and filters have had really good
results for us I think that the
structure the filter doesn't break down
so much so the pulp of the paper doesn't
get into the coffee as much why does
this matter well with the Kenya you can
definitely tell the results I don't know
if you could with the Sumatra you can
definitely taste paper tasting coffee
when you brew smaller amounts of coffee
especially with these methods you get
paper taste because you know relatively
if you dissolve a bunch of paper pulp
and into water you're going to taste it
more if you're making smaller total
volume as a result the other thing is
that if you if you do under extract if
you get 1.00%
extraction center one point two zero
that we were shooting for paper tapes
comes through very strongly now what
we're trying to do in these tests I
think I don't have to break this video
into a couple of parts so why don't we
stop there and we'll start part two